{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Prior to running GUI, users should:\
\
Specify the file containing the data matrix on line 103 (walking data) or line 105 (posture data). It's currently set to load in either "example_walking_data" or "example_postural_data". The data file should contain at a minimum:\
\
DATAsrc: the data matrix you want to extract synergies from (nmus x ncond)\
DATA_LST: the list of muscle names (nmus x ncharacters)\
\
Walking data files also should include "time" for plotting purposes. Line 106 specifies the number of muscles, conditions, trials, and bins for plotting purposes for postural data. I imagine most of your users will have walking data.\
\
One you have run the GUI, click the checkbox "walking" if you are examining walking data. If the box is left unchecked, it assumes postural data (this is for plotting purposes).\
\
Click "load data".\
\
If you would like to plot the data, click "plot data".\
\
To extract synergies using NMF, click "extract NMF muscle synergies". The number of muscle synergies required to achieve >90% overall VAF and >75% VAFmus will pop up in the box that says "How many synergies?" (this is also how you will know the extraction is finished). If you would like to plot the synergies, click "plot NMF muscle synergies". If you would like to plot a different number of muscle synergies, change the number in the box "How many synergies?" and click  "plot NMF muscle synergies" again.\
\
If you would like to plot the original data along with the muscle synergy reconstruction of the data and the individual muscle synergy contributions, specify which trial you would like to plot (only required for postural data since this example walking dataset only has a single trial) and click "Recon NMF".\
\
To see the 95% CIs around VAF generated using 100 bootstrap samples (nboot is specified on line 299), compared to bootstrap CIs on VAF of muscle synergies extracted from a shuffled DATAsrc, click "Plot VAF CI vs shuff". It computes the confidence intervals here, so it takes a few seconds.\
\
To compare to muscle synergies identified using PCA, click "extract PCA muscle synergies", "plot PCA muscle synergies", and "ReconPCA", just as was done for NMF. PCA is much quicker so you should not have to wait on the synergy extraction.}